# Regression-for-a-Bike-Sharing-DataSet

A model is developed to estimate the count of total rental bikes including both casual and registered. Data cleaning, features engineering, model building, evaluating and tunning are done on the data. Multiple Linear Regression, Polynomial, Decision Tree, Random Forest, XGBoost and SVR regressors are considered. The evaluation of these models are obtained using R2. Also, GridSearchCV is used to tune and reach the best model. 

Data Set Information:

Bike sharing systems are new generation of traditional bike rentals where whole process from membership, rental and return back has become automatic. Through these systems, user is able to easily rent a bike from a particular position and return back at another position. Currently, there are about over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world which is composed of over 500 thousands bicycles. Today, there exists great interest in these systems due to their important role in traffic, environmental and health issues.

Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of data being generated by these systems make them attractive for the research. Opposed to other transport services such as bus or subway, the duration of travel, departure and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that most of important events in the city could be detected via monitoring these data.

Data Source : https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Bike+Sharing+Dataset

Data cleaning :

The raw data from UCI was not prepared, so I have cleaned the data. In order to clean and prepare the data, first I checked if there was missing values.
Four variables had missing values. For WeatherSituation which is a categorical variable, I replaced the missing values with the value that was repeated the most.
For the Humidity variable which is a continuous variable, I replaced the NaN values with the mean of the other observations.
For Casual and Registered variables since they make the target variable, I decided to remove the observations with missing values.
In the rest of the data cleaning and preparing process, I also changed the name of the variables, defined new variable, and change the type of variables which their types were not correct.

EDA :

In the Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) part, I used histograms, bar charts, box charts and scatter plots to investigate the variables and their relation through visualization.
I have also used statistical methods such as correlation and ANOVA to check the relation between the target variable (TotalBikes) and other variables.

Model building , Evaluation and Tuning :

First, I transformed the categorical variables into dummy variables. I then split the data into train and tests sets with a test size of 20%.

I tried five different models and evaluated them using R2 score. I chose R2 because it is relatively easy to interpret.

I tried these five different Machine Learning models:

                Multiple Linear Regression ,  Polynomial , Decision Tree ,  Random Forest , XGBoost , SVR 
                

Grid Search is also used in order to tune the parameters for Random Forest model.

Model performance :

Random Forest model outperformed other models, even though XGBoost and SVR also had very good performances, especially XGBoost. The better performance by Random Forest model happened after tunning its parameters by Grid Search.
